Academic Editor: Pascal Venet
Received: 13 April 2026
Revised: 7 May 2026
Accepted: 11 May 2026
Published: 14 May 2026
Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license.
Article
Structural Parameter Optimization and Performance Evaluation
of Hybrid Cooling Systems for Electric Vertical Takeoff and
Landing Aircraft Battery Modules
Siyuan Yang 1
 , Jinlei Sun 2, Yaodong Wang 3
 , Yu Chen 4, Meng Li 5
 , Jiuyu Du 4,* and Xiaogang Wu 1,*
1 School of Electrical Engineering, Hebei University of Technology, Tianjin 300401, China; ysy0334@163.com
2 School of Automation, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China;
jinlei.sun@njust.edu.cn
3 Department of Engineering, Durham University, Durham DH1 3LE, UK; yaodong.wang@durham.ac.uk
4 School of Vehicle and Mobility, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; yu_chen@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
5 School of Mechanical Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing 100083, China;
limengrq@outlook.com
* Correspondence: dujiuyu@tsinghua.edu.cn (J.D.); 2023051@hebut.edu.cn (X.W.)
Abstract
Efficient and reliable cooling is essential for ensuring the safety and performance of battery
packs in electric vertical takeoff and landing (eVTOL) aircraft. To address the limitations
of existing cooling methods in cooling capability and structural integration, this study
proposes a hybrid cooling system combining air cooling, high-thermal-conductivity plates
(HCPs), and phase-change material (PCM). The power demand in different eVTOL flight
phases is first analyzed. A single-cell simulation model is then developed and validated
through experiments. The effects of three key structural parameters on system performance
are investigated, and their relative importance is quantified using sensitivity analysis. A
multi-objective evaluation framework is further established to compare the proposed sys-
tem with no cooling, passive cooling, and liquid cooling strategies. The adaptability of the
hybrid cooling system under different operating conditions is also evaluated. Finally, an
air-cooling intervention strategy is proposed based on the PCM liquid fraction. The results
show that the optimized hybrid cooling system limits the maximum battery temperature
and maximum temperature difference to 37.9 ◦C and 3.1 ◦C, respectively. Compared with
passive cooling, the proposed system improves temperature stability by 44.6%. Compared
with the liquid cooling system, space occupancy is reduced by 19.5%, and the grouping
efficiency is increased by 22.4%. The adaptability analysis indicates that the optimized
system is suitable for ambient temperatures not exceeding 30 ◦C. In addition, the pro-
posed air-cooling intervention strategy reduces the air-cooling energy consumption by
43.3% compared with continuous air cooling, while maintaining temperature uniformity.
These findings provide a numerical reference for the preliminary design of eVTOL battery
cooling systems.
Keywords: electric vertical takeoff and landing; lithium-ion battery; hybrid cooling system;
energy efficiency optimization
1. Introduction
Electric vertical takeoff and landing (eVTOL) aircraft is a disruptive transportation
technology that is expected to transform future transportation systems [1]. The significant
potential of eVTOL aircraft in enhancing commuting efficiency and alleviating ground
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 2 of 37
congestion [2], along with its time advantages for short and medium-range travel and its
value for sustainable development in complex traffic areas [3], has garnered widespread
attention. Currently, most mainstream eVTOLs rely on lithium-ion batteries as the power
source [4], which need to maintain an optimal operating temperature range of 20 ◦C to
40 ◦C [5], with the temperature difference between individual cells strictly controlled to
within 5 ◦C [6].
Compared to traditional electric vehicles, the design of eVTOL battery cooling systems
faces two unique challenges: first, the need for efficient thermal regulation to handle the
intense heat generation during high-discharge-rate phases of flight; second, the need to
strictly control system weight and power consumption to prevent excess weight from reduc-
ing the specific energy of the battery pack, weakening propulsion efficiency, and avoiding
excessive power consumption that could diminish the available energy for flight [7].
Currently, mainstream cooling strategies for lithium-ion batteries primarily include
four categories: air cooling [8,9], liquid cooling [10,11], phase-change material (PCM) cool-
ing [12,13], and heat pipe cooling [14]. Extensive research has been conducted to investigate
the fundamental thermal characteristics and design adaptability of cooling systems under
the unique operating conditions of eVTOLs. To address the unclear operational character-
istics of power batteries during eVTOL missions, Luo et al. [15] established a theoretical
eVTOL model and showed that vertical climb and acceleration are the peak-power phases,
with a discharge rate of 6.4 C. Park et al. [ 16] proposed a refined eVTOL battery sizing
method considering thermal effects. Their Thevenin equivalent circuit simulations con-
firmed the important influence of temperature on battery performance. Park et al. [ 17]
proposed a sizing method for an eVTOL liquid cooling battery system. The battery, cooling
channels, coolant, and cooling loop were considered within a unified design framework.
The results indicated that eVTOL liquid cooling design should consider not only tempera-
ture control, but also system mass, power consumption, and spatial integration. For eVTOL
battery thermal management, Zhaotian Wang et al. [18] developed a liquid cooling battery
structure with embedded surface channels. The spiral channel showed the best overall
performance, with a maximum battery temperature of 31.1 ◦C and a temperature difference
of 4.8 ◦C. Zhiwei Wu et al. [19] proposed a flat heat pipe–ram air passive cooling system.
The effects of ambient temperature, inlet mass flow rate, and fin spacing were investigated.
The system maintained the battery temperature below 38.46 ◦C, with a maximum tem-
perature difference of 3.85 ◦C. Zhao et al. [20] evaluated a channel-based liquid cooling
strategy for tilt wing and lift cruise aircraft. The results showed that liquid cooling could
maintain safe battery temperatures while keeping the cooling system mass below 20% of
the total battery mass. Zhao et al. [21] further analyzed the effects of flight parameters and
battery capacity on the mass of liquid-cooled BTMS and battery life. Their results provided
guidance for mission adaptive design. Chai et al. [22] proposed a PCM–immersion hybrid
cooling strategy. The system kept the battery pack temperature below 48 ◦C from an initial
temperature of 25 ◦C, with a maximum cell to cell temperature difference of 4.74 ◦C. PCM
accounted for only 5.32% of the battery pack mass, showing potential for repeated eVTOL
operation. Zhao et al. [23] integrated a thermoelectric heat exchanger into a liquid cooling
system. The system improved high-temperature adaptability up to 45 ◦C but introduced
trade-offs between system weight and flight cycles. Wang et al. [24] proposed a propeller
slipstream-driven air–liquid hybrid cooling system. Experimental results showed effective
heat dissipation over the full flight envelope, while maintaining structural simplicity.
PCM-based hybrid cooling systems have become an important research focus because
of their comprehensive thermal performance. Sun et al. [ 25] used longitudinal fins and
annular structures to enhance heat conduction within PCM. Their results showed that metal
fins can form a conductive network in PCM and improve battery thermal management
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 3 of 37
performance. Lee et al. [26] proposed a hybrid cooling system integrating a liquid-cooled
baseplate, aluminum fins, and PCM. The validated model showed that the system limited
the maximum battery temperature to 38.4 ◦C and the temperature difference to 3.9 ◦C. Ling
et al. [27] developed a PCM air cooling system. Their results showed that weak natural
convection caused heat accumulation in the PCM, whereas forced airflow helped restore
its thermal storage capacity. Ma et al. [28] proposed a PCM–water-cooling plate structure.
They analyzed the effects of cell spacing and coolant flow direction. The results indicated a
trade-off in thermal distribution, as larger spacing reduced the maximum temperature but
increased the minimum temperature. Zhonghao Rao et al. [29] designed a variable contact
liquid cooling system for cylindrical lithium-ion battery modules. Aluminum blocks were
used to transfer heat from the batteries to the coolant, thereby improving temperature
uniformity within the module.
Existing studies have proposed various solutions for eVTOL battery thermal manage-
ment and have improved temperature control and mission adaptability. However, several
limitations remain. Liquid cooling provides strong heat dissipation but increases system
complexity because of coolants, pumps, pipelines, and sealing components. Heat pipes,
ram air cooling, and passive cooling structures are lightweight, but their performance
depends strongly on external heat transfer conditions and flight states. Stable thermal
control over the full mission therefore remains difficult.
PCM-based hybrid cooling can reduce the limitations of single cooling methods. How-
ever, most existing designs are developed for electric vehicles or cylindrical battery packs.
These designs usually rely on PCM encapsulation to improve temperature uniformity and
heat storage. For compactly stacked large-format pouch cells in eVTOLs, the low thermal
conductivity of PCM limits heat removal from the module core. Therefore, thermal manage-
ment for eVTOL pouch cells requires both transient heat buffering during high-discharge
phases and a low resistance internal heat conduction path. Continuous heat release after
PCM heat absorption is also necessary.
To address the heat dissipation demand and structural compactness constraint of
eVTOL power batteries under high-rate discharge conditions, this study proposes a hybrid
cooling system combining air cooling, high-thermal-conductivity plates, and PCM. The
power demand in different flight phases is first analyzed using a typical eVTOL mission
profile. A single-cell thermal model is then developed and experimentally validated to
provide heat source input for subsequent module-level simulations. Three key structural
parameters are investigated, including cell spacing, thermally conductive material, and
inlet airflow velocity. Sensitivity analysis is used to quantify their relative effects on
cooling performance. A multi-objective evaluation framework is established to compare
the proposed system with no cooling, passive cooling, and liquid cooling strategies. System
adaptability is further examined under different ambient temperatures, cruise durations,
and hover durations. Finally, an air-cooling intervention strategy based on the PCM liquid
fraction is proposed to reduce the energy consumption caused by continuous air cooling.
2. Analysis of Power Requirements for eVTOL Flight Conditions
Based on the typical eVTOL aircraft parameters and mission profile, this section devel-
ops a propulsion power model for each flight phase. By integrating the basic parameters
of the battery system, the model calculates the discharge rate and current curves for each
phase, enabling precise quantification of power demands throughout the entire flight mis-
sion. These calculation results provide key benchmark data for subsequent simulations of
the cooling system and the development of the thermal source model.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 4 of 37
2.1. eVTOL Flight Condition Analysis
This study focuses on a short-range commuter electric vertical takeoff and landing
(eVTOL) aircraft, with the aircraft parameters primarily referenced from [3]. To meet the
power and energy demands of short-range eVTOL operations, a lithium-ion battery with
a capacity of 45 Ah has been selected. The complete aircraft configuration and detailed
battery specifications are provided in Table 1. Under nominal operating conditions, the
aircraft maintains a cruising altitude of 305 m (1000 feet) above ground. The flight condition
adopted in this study is not based on measured flight data. Instead, it is assumed and
constructed based on the typical eVTOL mission parameters reported in Ref. [7]. As shown
in Table 2, the flight condition includes five phases: takeoff hover, climb, cruise, descent,
and landing hover. The duration of these phases is set to 30 s, 120 s, 1200 s, 120 s, and
30 s, respectively.
Table 1. Parameters and specifications of flying cars and lithium iron phosphate batteries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vehicle Parameters Value Battery Parameters Value
Total takeoff weight, GTOM (kg) 1500 Capacity, (Ah) 45
Unladen weight, me (kg) 700 Mass, mbat (g) 820
Battery pack capacity, Ebat (kWh) 66 Nominal voltage, Vbat (V) 3.2
hover efficiency, ηh 0.64 Working voltage range, (V) 2.7–3.65
Pulp tray load, σ (N/m2) 450 Thermal conductivity, (W/m ·K) 3.1 × 23.56 × 23.56
System efficiency, η 0.85 Specific energy, ebat (Wh/kg) 175.6
Cruise lift-to-drag ratio, (L/D)cr 14
Battery pack integration efficiency, ηi 0.8
Climb/descent lift-to-drag ratio, (L/D)cl 12
Cruising speed, Scr (km/h) 241
Table 2. eVTOL flight conditions.
Flight Phase Operating Status
Takeoff and Hover Hover for 30 s after takeoff
Climb Climb for 120 s at horizontal speed Sh and vertical
speed Sv, where Sh = 3√
1/3Scr, Sv ≈ 9 (km/h)
Cruise Cruise at 241 km/h for tcr = 1200 s
Descent Descend for 120 s at horizontal speed Sh and vertical
speed Sv
Hover landing Hover for 30 s during landing
Each flight phase exhibits distinct duration, velocity, and discharge rate character-
istics. To estimate the power requirements for each eVTOL flight phase, we developed
phase-specific power calculation models, enabling evaluation of battery thermal load char-
acteristics under different flight conditions. The specific formulations are presented below:
Pta = 1
ωbat
g
ηh
mbat
ηi
r σ
2ρair
(1)
Pcl = 1
ωbat
g
η
mbat
ηi

ROC + Scl
(L/D)cl

(2)
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 5 of 37
Pcr = 1
ωbat
g
η
mbat
ηi
Scr
(L/D)cr
(3)
Pde = 1
ωbat
g
η
mbat
ηi

ROD + Sde
(L/D)de

(4)
In Equations (1)–(4), Pta (W), Pcl (W), Pcr (W), and Pde (W) denote the cell-level power
demand during takeoff or landing hover, climb, cruise, and descent, respectively.ωbat is
the battery mass fraction, defined as the ratio of the total battery pack mass to the gross
takeoff mass of the aircraft. mbat (kg) is the mass of a single cell. GTOM (kg) is the gross
takeoff mass of the aircraft. g (m·s−2) is the gravitational acceleration, and g = 9.81 m·s−2.
σ (N·m−2) is the disk loading. ρair (kg·m−3) is the air density, and ρair = 1.225 kg·m−3. ηh,
ηi and η are the hover efficiency, battery pack integration efficiency, and propulsion-system
efficiency, respectively [30]. ROC (m·s−1) and ROD (m·s−1) denote the rate of climb and
the rate of descent, respectively. Scl (m·s−1), Scr (m·s−1), and Sde (m·s−1) are the horizontal
flight speeds during climb, cruise, and descent, respectively. (L/D)cl, (L/D)cr, and (L/D)de
are the lift-to-drag ratios in the climb, cruise, and descent phases, respectively [7].
2.2. Analysis of Flight Condition Load Parameters
Based on the flight condition parameters defined in Section 2.1 and the corresponding
thrust power expressions for each flight phase, the dynamic variations in the thermal load
throughout the entire eVTOL mission profile can be systematically characterized. This
section derives the power requirements for the different flight phases of the aircraft, and by
dividing the required propulsion power by the battery output voltage, the battery discharge
rate can be calculated. The results are summarized in Table 3. Multiplying the discharge
rate of each flight phase by the rated capacity of the battery provides the corresponding
discharge current. The trend of discharge current variation for each flight phase is shown
in Figure 1: during takeoff and landing phases, the propulsion system demands peak
power, leading to significant spikes in the battery discharge current, while during cruise
and descent, system loads stabilize, resulting in lower discharge currents. For example,
in this study, a single battery cell (with dimensions of 320 mm × 115 mm × 10 mm) has
an effective heat dissipation surface area of approximately 368 cm2. During the landing
phase, with a high discharge rate of 4.3 C, the instantaneous discharge current of the cell
reaches 193.5 A, corresponding to a current density of 0.526 A/cm2, which is significantly
higher than the typical current density of 0.12 A/cm2 under 1 C discharge conditions in
conventional electric vehicles. Due to the compact structure of the cell, the heat generation
rate per unit surface area caused by Ohmic heating increases substantially under such
conditions, with the instantaneous thermal flux density being more than 300% higher than
that of traditional electric vehicle batteries. This imposes more stringent requirements
on the heat diffusion path inside the cell and the response time of the external cooling
system. Therefore, accurately characterizing the battery discharge behavior under real
flight conditions is crucial for designing and developing an efficient cooling system suitable
for eVTOL applications.
Table 3. Power requirements and battery discharge rates for different flight phases of eVTOLs.
Flight Phase Duration (s) Power
Requirement (W) Discharge Rate (C)
Takeoff and Hover 30 623.2 4.3
Climb 120 233.4 1.6
Cruise 1200 165.4 1.1
Descent 120 138.5 0.9
Hover landing 30 623.2 4.3
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 6 of 37
Take off and hover
Climb
Cruise Decline
Hover landing
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200Discharge current(A)
Time(s)
 Discharge current(A)
Figure 1. Battery discharge current during different flight phases.
In summary, by dividing the flight mission into stages and calculating the power
requirements for each stage, the real-time discharge parameters of the battery at different
flight stages can be determined, which in turn allows for the construction of a time-varying
discharge curve. These results provide key input data for the subsequent development of
the Bernardi thermal model for the battery.
To further characterize the SOC evolution, the ampere-hour integration method was
used to calculate the SOC:
SOC(t) = SOC0 − 1
3600Qcell
tZ
0
I(τ)dτ (5)
In Equation (5), SOC(t) is the state of charge at timet, SOC0 is the initial state of charge,
Qcell (Ah) is the rated capacity of a single cell, I(t) (A) is the time-varying discharge current
during flight, and t (s) is the mission time.
3. Hybrid Cooling System Structural Design and Modeling
3.1. Hybrid Cooling System Structural Design
As described in Section 2.1, the target battery pack energy for the eVTOL platform is
66 kWh. The selected lithium-ion pouch cell has a nominal capacity of 45 Ah and a nominal
voltage of 3.2 V , corresponding to 144 Wh per cell. The main power battery system consists
of 13 standardized modules. Each module adopts an 18S2P configuration and contains
36 pouch cells. The rated energy of each module is 5.18 kWh. Therefore, the total installed
energy reaches 67.4 kWh, which satisfies the system-level energy requirement of 66 kWh.
To assess structural integration on the eVTOL platform, a complete battery system
with 13 modules was assembled. The whole system contains 468 cells. After assembly, the
total mass is about 459 kg, the total volume is about 221 L, and the installed energy is about
67.4 kWh. In comparison, battery systems in leading eVTOL prototypes, such as Joby S4
and City Airbus, can reach about 900 kg. Therefore, the proposed battery system remains
within a reasonable range for integration and packaging [31].
Figure 2 shows a schematic diagram of the hybrid cooling system structure; the pro-
posed hybrid cooling system integrates battery cells, PCM layers, high-thermal-conductivity
plates, and air-cooling channels into a unified structure. High-thermal-conductivity plates
are inserted between adjacent cells. Cell spacing directly determines the plate thickness [32].
These plates provide lateral heat spreading and reduce local heat accumulation inside the
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 7 of 37
module. PCM layers made of polyethylene-based encapsulating material [26] are arranged
on both sides of each cell. PCM absorbs excess heat during high-rate discharge and sup-
presses rapid temperature rise. However, PCM heat storage is transient. Continuous heat
rejection is required to remove stored heat and recover latent heat capacity. Air-cooling
channels are placed on the outer surface of the PCM layers. During flight, airflow produces
forced convection and removes heat released from the PCM.
 
 
 
Figure 2. Schematic diagram of the hybrid cooling system structure.
The three components form a clear heat transfer path. Heat generated by the cells
first spreads laterally through the high-thermal-conductivity plates. The PCM then buffers
the peak thermal load through phase change. Finally, air cooling removes heat from the
PCM surface.
3.2. Simulation Model Boundary and Parameter Setting
To ensure comparability among different cooling structures and parameters, the
same thermal boundary conditions and interface treatments were used in the baseline
simulations. The battery, high-thermal-conductivity plate, and PCM were modeled as
solid heat conduction domains, while the air domain was treated as an incompressible
Newtonian fluid. Initially, the battery module, high-thermal-conductivity plate, PCM, and
inlet air were in thermal equilibrium with the environment at 25 ◦C. Ideal thermal contact
was assumed at the battery–high-thermal-conductivity plate, battery–PCM, and PCM–high-
thermal-conductivity plate interfaces, with continuous temperature and heat flux.
A uniform velocity inlet was applied to the air-cooling channel, with inlet airflow
velocities of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 m/s. The velocity was imposed directly on the inlet section.
The outlet was set as a pressure outlet at 0 Pa, and no slip conditions were applied to the
air domain walls. The pressure drop was obtained from CFD post processing and defined
as the area-averaged static pressure difference between the inlet and outlet sections. It
only represents the internal flow resistance of the modeled air-cooling channel, without
additional losses from external pipes or components. Forced convection acted only on the
PCM outer surface within the air-cooling channel. Natural convection was applied to the
remaining external module surfaces, with a heat transfer coefficient of 10 W·m−2·K−1 [33].
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 8 of 37
The boundary conditions at the interface between the battery and the PCM depend on
the energy conservation Equation (6):
−kbat
∂T
∂n = −kPCM
∂T
∂n (6)
In Equation (6), kbat (W·m−1·K−1) is the battery thermal conductivity , and kPCM
(W·m−1·K−1) is the thermal conductivity of the PCM.∂T/∂n is the temperature gradient.
The contact surface between the PCM and the high-thermal-conductivity plate has a
similar energy conservation, as shown in Equation (7),
−kPCM
∂T
∂n = −kHCP
∂T
∂n (7)
In Equation (7), kHCP (W·m−1·K−1) is the thermal conductivity of the heat-conducting
plate.
The boundary conditions for PCM exposed to air cooling are shown in Equation (8),
−kPCM
∂T
∂n = h(TPCM − Tair ) (8)
In Equation (8), h (W·m−2·K−1) and Tpcm (K) denote the PCM thermal conductivity,
convective heat transfer coefficient and the temperature of the PCM in contact with the air
cooling, respectively.
The flow regime in the air-cooling channel was evaluated using the Reynolds number,
defined as
Re = ρairuinDh
µ air
(9)
In Equation (9), Re is the Reynolds number, ρair (kg·m−3) is the air density, uin (m·s−1)
is the inlet airflow velocity, Dh (m) is the hydraulic diameter of the air-cooling channel, and
µ air (Pa·s) is the dynamic viscosity of air. Based on the inlet airflow velocities of 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5 m/s, the corresponding Reynolds numbers were calculated as 630, 1261, 1891, 2522,
and 3152, respectively. Therefore, the cases with inlet airflow velocities of 1–3 m/s were
treated as laminar flow. The cases with inlet airflow velocities of 4–5 m/s fall within the
transitional regime of internal flow; however, considering the possible local flow instability
and pronounced near-wall effects in the narrow channel, the SST k-ω model was adopted
for these cases.
The airflow domain satisfies the continuity equation:
∇ · u = 0 (10)
The momentum conservation equation can be written as
ρair
 ∂u
∂t + u · ∇u

= −∇p + ∇
h
(µ air + µ t)

∇u + ∇uT
i
(11)
In Equations (10) and (11), u (m·s−1) is the air velocity vector, p (Pa) is pressure, ρair
(kg·m−3) is the air density, µ air (Pa·s) is the dynamic viscosity of air, and µ t (Pa·s) is the
turbulent eddy viscosity. For the laminar cases, µ t = 0. For the 4 and 5 m ·s−1 cases, µ t is
obtained from the SST k-ω turbulence model.
The transport equations of the SST k-ω model are given by
∂(ρk)
∂t + ∇(ρku) = ∇[(µ + σkµ t)∇k] + Pk − β∗ρkω (12)
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 9 of 37
∂(ρω)
∂t + ∇(ρωu) = ∇[(µ + σωµ t)∇ω] + α ω
k Pk − βρω2 + Dω (13)
where k is the turbulent kinetic energy,ω is the specific dissipation rate, Pk is the production
term of turbulent kinetic energy, and Dω is the cross-diffusion term. The SST k-ω model
combines the near-wall prediction capability of the standardk-ω model with the robustness
of the k-ε model in the free-stream region and is therefore suitable for narrow-channel flows
with strong near-wall gradients and possible local flow instability, as encountered in the
present hybrid cooling configuration.
To ensure the accuracy of the simulation results, a grid independence test was con-
ducted for the model used in this study. The test was performed under a 1 C discharge
mode for the battery module, with the model divided using a free tetrahedral mesh, as
shown in Figure 3a. The highest module temperature was used as the evaluation criterion,
and the results are shown in Figure 3b. When the number of mesh elements increased to
2,226,318, further mesh refinement had no significant effect on the maximum temperature.
Compared to the case with 4,176,062 mesh elements, the maximum temperature error for
the case with 2,226,318 mesh elements did not exceed 1%. Considering both computational
cost and accuracy, 2,226,318 mesh elements were selected for subsequent simulations. This
mesh division effectively reduces computational resource consumption while ensuring
computational accuracy, providing reliable numerical results for subsequent parameter
optimization and engineering design.
Figure 3. Grid model and validation results: (a) grid distribution and (b) grid independence valida-
tion results.
Additionally, to ensure that the mesh quality meets the high-precision simulation
requirements, a comprehensive evaluation of the mesh quality was conducted, with a focus
on two key parameters: skewness and orthogonality. Skewness measures the degree to
which a mesh element deviates from its ideal shape, and lower skewness values contribute
to improved numerical solution stability. Orthogonality, on the other hand, reflects the
angular relationship between the edges of a mesh element and those of its neighboring
elements. High orthogonality enhances computational accuracy and convergence. In
this study, skewness was maintained below 0.3, and the orthogonality of most mesh cells
exceeded 95%, effectively ensuring mesh quality and the reliability and stability of the
simulation results.
In addition, the thermal conductivity and thermophysical properties of the PCM are
critical to the cooling performance. The properties of the PCM and thermally conductive
materials are listed in Table 4. In this study, MPCM32D [34] and thermal-conducting plates
were selected to enhance heat transfer from the cell surface to the PCM, thereby improving
the temperature uniformity of the battery module. The thermophysical properties of the
battery, PCM, and thermal-conducting plates were obtained from experimental measure-
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 10 of 37
ments, material handbooks, and published literature, and were treated as constants. The
properties of air and liquid water were defined using the built-in temperature-dependent
functions in the COMSOL Multiphysics 6.2 simulation software.
Table 4. Properties of phase change and thermally conductive materials.
Material Parameters MPCM32D 1060 AL
Alloy
6063 AL
Alloy AlN Ceramic
Specific heat capacity,
(J/kg·K) 2500 - - -
Thermal conductivity,
(W/m·K) 0.6 231 200 204
Density, (kg·m3) 1000 2700 2000 3280
Latent heat, (kJ/kg) 106 - - -
Phase transition
temperature, (◦C) 30–32 - - -
Considering engineering feasibility and cost effectiveness, 1060 aluminum alloy,
6063 aluminum alloy, and AlN ceramic were used as thermally conductive materials.
These materials have good thermal conductivity, machinability, weldability, and relatively
low cost [ 35,36]. MPCM32D also provides high latent heat and good thermal cycling
stability. Therefore, the selected materials can meet the thermal management requirements
and show good potential for large-scale manufacturing and cost control [37].
3.3. Battery Thermal Model
3.3.1. Battery Heat Generation Equation
Heat generation in lithium-ion batteries primarily occurs during the charging and dis-
charging processes. Complex chemical reactions take place inside the battery, accompanied
by the consumption and generation of materials. Additionally, the internal resistance of the
battery during charging and discharging causes some electrical energy to be converted into
heat, resulting in a temperature rise. In simulation studies, the Bernardi equation [38] is
commonly used to model the heat generation process of the battery.
Qgen (t) = I(Uocv − Ute) + ITbat
dUocv
dT (14)
In Equation (14), Qgen(t) (W) is the battery heat generation rate, I(t) (A) is the dis-
charge current, Uocv (V) is the open-circuit voltage, Ut (V) is the terminal voltage, Tbat (K)
is the battery temperature, and dUocv/dT (V·K−1) is the entropy coefficient.
During actual charging and discharging processes, the open-circuit voltage of the
battery cannot be measured in real time. For convenience in calculation, the Joule heating
component is often approximated by the heat generated by the internal resistance of the
battery. Therefore, Equation (14) can be further equivalent to Equation (15).
Qgen (t) = I2 · R + ITbat
dUocv
dT (15)
In Equation (15), R(Ω) is the internal resistance of the battery. The first term,I2R, repre-
sents irreversible Joule heat caused by internal resistance. The second term,ITbatdUocv/dT,
represents reversible heat associated with the entropy change of the electrochemical reaction.
After testing, the entropy coefficient is shown in Figure 4a, the total internal resistance
of the battery during discharge at 0.5 C, 1 C, and 2 C rates are shown in Figure 4b.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 11 of 37
 
Figure 4. (a) Entropy coefficient of the battery; ( b) battery internal resistance at different dis-
charge rates.
Due to the potential hazards associated with high-rate charge–discharge experiments,
this study will predict the internal resistance of high-rate discharge batteries under flight
conditions based on existing experimental data using a fitting function. According to the
research in Reference [ 39], there is a significant nonlinear relationship between battery
internal resistance and discharge rate. The nonlinear fitting results of internal resistance
relative to discharge rate at 100% SOC are shown in Figure 5a. Similarly, the total internal
resistance of the battery at different discharge rates is shown in Figure 5b. All subsequent
simulations are based on the current fitting results, and when the difference in discharge
rates is not significant, the internal resistance is approximated as the nearest integer multiple
of the internal resistance.
Figure 5. (a) Internal resistance at different discharge rates under 100% SOC; ( b) battery internal
resistance at varying discharge rates.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 12 of 37
3.3.2. Battery Heat Transfer Equation
In the operating temperature range of the battery, the electrolyte is mostly static and
the temperature distribution inside the battery follows the basic equations of solid-state
heat transfer [40]:
ρbatCbat
dT(t)
dt = ∂
∂x

kx,bat
∂T
∂x

+ ∂
∂y

ky,bat
∂T
∂y

+ ∂
∂z

kz,bat
∂T
∂z

+ Qgen (t) (16)
In Equation (16), ρbat (kg·m−3) is the battery density, Cbat (kg−1·K−1) is the battery
specific heat capacity,T(t) (K) is the transient battery temperature, and Qgen(t) (W·m−3) is
the volumetric heat generation rate of the battery. kx,bat, ky,bat, and kz,bat (W·m−1·K−1) are
the battery thermal conductivities in the x, y, and z directions, respectively.
3.4. Phase-Change Material Model
In this study, the enthalpy method is used to simulate the heat transfer process of
PCM [41]. A transition temperature difference is introduced within the solid–liquid phase
change temperature range in the simulation to avoid the issue of non-convergence caused
by directly using a 0 K temperature difference. The energy equation is as follows:
ρpcm
∂H
∂t = kpcm ∇2T (17)
H = hp + ∆H (18)
h =
Z T
T0
CpcmdT (19)
∆H = βλ (20)
β =



0, T ≤ Ts
T−Ts
Tl −Ts , Ts < T < Tl
1, T ≥ Tl
(21)
In Equations (17)–(21), ρpcm (kg·m−3) is the PCM density, kpcm (W·m−1·K−1) is the
PCM thermal conductivity, T (K) is temperature, and H (J·kg−1) is the total enthalpy of
the PCM. hp (J·kg−1) is the sensible enthalpy, and ∆H (J·kg−1) is the latent enthalpy. Cpcm
(J·kg−1·K−1) is the PCM specific heat capacity, T (K) is the reference temperature, and
λ (J·kg−1) is the latent heat of phase change. β is the PCM liquid fraction, Ts (K) is the
solidus temperature, and Tl (K) is the liquidus temperature. For MPCM32D, Ts = 30 ◦C
and Tl = 32 ◦C. β = 0 denotes a fully solid state, β = 1 denotes a fully liquid state, and
0 < β < 1 denotes the mushy region.
3.5. Cooling System Performance Evaluation Index System
The battery cooling system is an essential aspect of eVTOL design, requiring an
effective evaluation method. This method, based on [ 42], constructs multidimensional
performance indicators for the cooling system, providing comprehensive and intuitive
standards for the design of eVTOL cooling systems.
The concept of temperature control margin, which is the difference between the
maximum allowable temperature of the battery and the actual average temperature, is used
to evaluate the capability of the cooling system to control battery temperature. Temperature
control margin can be expressed as:
TCM = Tlimit −
R
Ttrdt
trunning
(22)
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 13 of 37
The equation TCM is the temperature control margin, Tlimit a is the upper limit of
the permissible temperature of the battery,Ttr is the transient temperature, trunning is the
running time.
Temperature stability is the standard deviation of the maximum temperature, reflecting
temperature fluctuations and evaluating the ability of the cooling system to control the
battery temperature. Temperature control stability can be expressed as:
ST =
vuuut
R t1
t0
Ttr −
R
Ttrdt
t
dt
tend − tstrat
(23)
The equation ST is the temperature stability, where Ttr is the transient temperature
of the element. The start time tstrat and end time tend correspond to the operating state of
the element.
The time-averaged maximum temperature difference is the average value of the
difference between the highest and lowest temperatures in the battery module, which
is used as an index to evaluate the temperature uniformity of the battery module. The
time-averaged maximum temperature difference is defined as follows:
DT =
R
(Tmax − Tmin)dt
t (24)
The equation DT is time-averaged maximum temperature difference, Tmax is the
maximum temperature of the battery module, and Tmin is the minimum temperature of the
battery module.
Group efficiency is an indicator used to assess the weight of the battery cooling system.
It is defined as the energy density of a single battery divided by the energy density of the
entire battery system, reflecting the lightweight level of the cooling system. The definition
of group efficiency is as follows:
GE = EDbat
EDsystem
(25)
The equation GE is the grouping efficiency, EDbat is the energy density of battery, and
EDsystem is the energy density of the battery system.
Space occupancy is defined as the percentage of space occupied by the battery cooling
system in relation to the total available space in the eVTOL, as an indicator for evaluating
the volume of the battery cooling system. The space occupancy is expressed as follows:
SO = VOTMS
VOtotal
(26)
The equation SO is the space occupancy of the cooling system, VOTMS denotes the
volume occupied by the cooling system, both the actual volume and the volume that cannot
be occupied by other equipment or components due to the arrangement of the cooling
system, and VOtotal denotes the total available space in the eVTOL.
For a better overall comparison, the above evaluation metrics need to be normalized.
TCM max , STmax and DTmax are based on the operating limits of the battery.
TCM ∗ = TCM /TCM max (27)
ST ∗ = 1 − ST/STmax (28)
DT ∗ = 1 − DT/DTmax (29)
GE∗ = GE (30)
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 14 of 37
SO∗ = 1 − SO (31)
4. Results and Discussion
4.1. Model Validation
To ensure reliable heat source input for subsequent module-level simulations, the
battery thermal response model was validated by comparing experimental and simulated
temperature data. As shown in Figure 6a, the experimental platform consisted of a bat-
tery tester for charge and discharge cycles and data acquisition, a temperature chamber
for maintaining constant environmental conditions, and a temperature acquisition and
control system.
Figure 6. Experiment and simulation platform: (a) structure of the experimental setup; (b) physical
drawing of the thermocouple; (c) simulation model thermocouple arrangement.
Two batteries from the same batch were used in the experiment. The capacity dif-
ference between the two batteries was less than 0.1 Ah, which ensured good consistency
and representativeness of the samples. As shown in Figure 6b,c, five thermocouples were
attached to the surface of a single battery to monitor the temperature distribution. Multiple
charge and discharge cycles were conducted, and the corresponding data were recorded to
verify the repeatability of the results.
During the experiment, the ambient temperature was maintained at 25◦C. The temper-
ature chamber effectively reduced environmental temperature fluctuations and minimized
their influence on battery performance.
As shown in Figure 7a, the battery thermal model was validated under 1C, 2C, and 3C
discharge conditions by comparing the simulated temperature with the average measured
temperature. To further assess the applicability of the model under dynamic loading,
additional validation was performed under the eVTOL flight profile, as shown in Figure 7b.
Under both conditions, the simulated results agree well with the experimental data, with
deviations within 2%. These results support the use of the single-cell heat generation model
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 15 of 37
and heat source input in subsequent module-level simulations. The performance of the
hybrid cooling system is mainly evaluated through numerical simulation.
Figure 7. Comparison of simulated and experimental temperature rise: (a) 1 C, 2 C, and 3 C discharge
rates; (b) eVTOL flight conditions.
4.2. Optimization Analysis of Hybrid Cooling System Parameters
This section employs a multi-physics coupling model to study the hybrid cooling
system, with a focus on three key structural parameters: cell spacing, thermally conduc-
tive material and inlet airflow velocity. The goal is to determine the optimal parameter
configuration for the synergistic enhancement of performance.
4.2.1. Effect of Cell Spacing
Cell spacing is a key structural parameter for reducing heat accumulation within the
module. The coupling between cell spacing and HCP thickness directly affects thermal
performance and structural compactness. Therefore, four cell spacings of 0.5, 1, 1.5, and
2 mm were evaluated. The ambient temperature, inlet airflow velocity, and HCP material
were set to 25 ◦C, 1 m/s, and 1060 aluminum alloy, respectively.
Larger cell spacing allows thicker HCPs to be placed between adjacent cells. This
enhances lateral heat conduction and improves temperature uniformity. As shown in
Figure 8a,b, increasing the spacing from 0.5 mm to 2 mm reduces the maximum battery
temperature from 41.8 ◦C to 39.5 ◦C, corresponding to a 5.5% improvement. The maxi-
mum temperature difference decreases from 4.46 ◦C to 3.39 ◦C, corresponding to a 23.9%
improvement. These results indicate that better matching between cell spacing and HCP
thickness can promote heat diffusion within the module.
However, larger spacing also increases system mass. As shown in Figure 9, the total
HCP mass increases from 11 kg to 44 kg as spacing increases from 0.5 mm to 2 mm. Such a
mass increase is unsuitable for weight-constrained eVTOL applications.
Considering thermal safety and lightweight design requirements, a cell spacing of
1 mm was selected. This spacing provides a reasonable balance between cooling perfor-
mance and structural compactness and serves as the basis for the integrated design of the
hybrid cooling system.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 16 of 37
Figure 8. Impact of cell spacing on thermal performance: (a) variation of maximum temperature with
spacing; (b) variation of temperature difference with spacing.
Figure 9. Temperature and HCP weight versus cell spacing.
4.2.2. Influence of Thermally Conductive Materials
Considering cost effectiveness and scalability, three thermally conductive materials
were evaluated: 1060 aluminum alloy, 6063 aluminum alloy, and aluminum nitride (AlN)
ceramic. The simulations were performed under the same conditions, with an ambient
temperature of 25 ◦C, an inlet airflow velocity of 1 m/s, and a cell spacing of 1 mm. The eval-
uation focused on the maximum temperature, temperature uniformity, and system mass.
As shown in Figures 10 and 11, 1060 aluminum alloy provides good overall thermal
performance. The maximum temperature is 40.20 ◦C, and the maximum temperature differ-
ence is 2.651 ◦C. However, the corresponding HCP mass reaches 22 kg. The 6063-aluminum
alloy shows the best temperature uniformity, with the lowest maximum temperature dif-
ference of 2.31 ◦C. The maximum temperature is 39.90 ◦C. More importantly, its HCP
mass is only 16.3 kg, which gives a clear advantage for lightweight design. AlN ceramic
shows moderate thermal performance, with a maximum temperature of 41.05 ◦C and a
temperature difference of 2.55 ◦C. However, its HCP mass reaches 25.8 kg, which limits its
suitability for weight-sensitive eVTOL applications.
Overall, 6063 aluminum alloy offers the best balance between thermal performance
and lightweight design, and the system mass is 19.4 kg. Therefore, 6063 aluminum alloy
was selected as the thermally conductive material for the proposed hybrid cooling system.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 17 of 37
Figure 10. Effect of thermal conductivity materials on thermal performance: (a) maximum tempera-
ture variation with material; (b) temperature difference variation with material.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11. HCP weight variation with thermal conductivity material.
4.2.3. Effect of Inlet Airflow Velocity
This section evaluates the effect of inlet airflow velocity on PCM latent heat recovery
and thermal regulation performance. The simulations were conducted at an ambient
temperature of 25 ◦C, using 6063 aluminum alloy as the thermally conductive material and
a cell spacing of 1 mm. Five inlet airflow velocities were considered: 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 m/s.
As shown in Figure 12a,b, inlet airflow velocity has a coupled effect on the battery
temperature field. Increasing the velocity from 1 m/s to 5 m/s enhances convective heat
transfer and reduces the maximum module temperature from 39.9 ◦C to 37.2 ◦C. How-
ever, excessive airflow deteriorates temperature uniformity. The maximum temperature
difference increases from 2.3 ◦C to 3.7 ◦C.
Figure 12. Effect of inlet airflow velocity on thermal performance: ( a) variation of maximum
temperature with flow velocity; (b) variation of temperature difference with airflow velocity.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 18 of 37
As shown in Figure 13, module temperature continues to rise when the PCM heat
absorption rate is lower than the battery heat generation rate. Among the tested cases,
an inlet velocity of 3 m/s provides the best balance between heat removal and tempera-
ture uniformity. The corresponding maximum temperature and maximum temperature
difference are 37.9 ◦C and 3.1 ◦C, respectively.
 
 
Figure 13. Combined characteristics of temperature parameters and flow rate.
Figure 14a,b further illustrates the thermal conduction pathways and temperature
field distribution from a spatial perspective. The heat conduction plate establishes an
efficient thermal bridge between the high-temperature region at the center of the battery
and the surrounding PCM, enabling effective upward heat transfer into the PCM layer.
This mechanism facilitates improved thermal diffusion and contributes to a more uniform
temperature distribution across the module.
Figure 14. Characteristics of battery module temperature distribution for hybrid cooling system:
(a) module temperature field distribution; (b) localized module temperature field distribution.
Simultaneously, the air-cooling subsystem effectively removes the heat absorbed by
the PCM in a timely manner, preventing thermal accumulation and significantly lowering
the overall temperature of the system. These results demonstrate that the hybrid cooling
system exhibits excellent performance in both temperature uniformity and heat dissipation,
successfully addressing the challenge of non-uniform thermal distribution within the
battery module.
The parametric analyses of cell spacing, thermally conductive material, and inlet
airflow velocity identified the optimal configuration of the hybrid cooling system. The cell
spacing was set to 1 mm, 6063 aluminum alloy was selected as the thermally conductive
material, and the inlet airflow velocity was set to 3 m/s. Under this configuration, the sys-
tem achieves a good balance between temperature regulation and structural compactness.
Therefore, this parameter combination is used as the reference configuration for subsequent
comparisons with other cooling strategies.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 19 of 37
4.2.4. Structural Parameter Sensitivity Analysis
This section introduces local sensitivity coefficients to quantitatively evaluate the
effects of three key parameters, namely cell spacing, the thermal conductivity of the high-
thermal-conductivity plate material, and inlet airflow velocity, on the thermal performance
and structural compactness of the hybrid cooling system [ 43]. The results help clarify
the relative importance of these structural parameters and provide a theoretical basis for
parameter control and design prioritization in engineering applications.
Sx = ∂Tmax
∂xi
xi
Tmax
(32)
In Equation (32), Sx is the local sensitivity coefficient, xi is the actual value of the
structural parameter, and Tmax (◦C) is the corresponding maximum module temperature.
A positive Sx indicates that Tmax increases as the parameter increases, whereas a negative
Sx indicates that Tmax decreases as the parameter increases. The same definition is applied
to the sensitivity analysis of ∆T (◦C) and system mass m (kg). Based on the simulation
data from Sections 4.2.1–4.2.3, small disturbances of ±10% are applied to each parameter,
and the corresponding changes in the evaluation metrics are obtained, from which the
sensitivity coefficients are calculated. The specific settings are as follows.
Cell spacing: using the optimal value of 1 mm as reference, with the thermal material
set as 6063 aluminum alloy and the inlet airflow velocity at 3 m/s, the variations in a, b,
and system weight m are recorded.
Thermal conductivity: using the thermal conductivity of 6063 aluminum alloy as the
reference, with the cell spacing fixed at 1 mm and the inlet airflow velocity at 3 m/s, the
variations in a, b, and system weight m are recorded.
Inlet airflow velocity: using the optimal value of 3 m/s as the reference, with the cell
spacing at 1 mm and the thermal material set as 6063 aluminum alloy, the variations in a, b,
and system weight m are recorded.
The sensitivity coefficients of each parameter for different evaluation metrics are
shown in Table 5.
Table 5. Sensitivity coefficients of structural parameters.
Structural Parameter Structural Parameter Structural Parameter
Cell Spacing Tmax −0.52
∆T −0.47
System Weight 2.15
Thermal Conductivity Tmax −0.08
∆T −0.06
System Weight 0.12
Inlet airflow velocity Tmax −0.12
∆T 0.23
System Weight 0.05
Based on the absolute values of the coefficients and their correlation, the following
conclusions can be drawn.
Priority of impact on system weight: cell spacing > thermal conductivity > inlet
airflow velocity. A 10% increase in cell spacing results in a 21.5% increase in system weight,
making it the key parameter affecting structural lightweight design. This also confirms
the conclusion in Section 4.2.1 that “a 1 mm cell spacing is the balance point between
thermal performance and lightweight design”, indicating that the cell spacing should not
be excessively increased to lower the temperature.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 20 of 37
Priority of impact on maximum temperature: cell spacing > inlet airflow velocity >
thermal conductivity. A 10% increase in cell spacing can reduce the maximum temperature
by 5.2%, while a 10% increase in thermal conductivity only reduces the maximum tempera-
ture by 0.8%. This suggests that when selecting materials, there is no need to excessively
pursue high thermal conductivity, as the thermal performance of 6063 aluminum alloy is
sufficient to meet the requirements.
Priority of impact on temperature uniformity: inlet airflow velocity > cell spacing
> thermal conductivity. A 10% increase in inlet airflow velocity raises the temperature
difference by 2.3%, which is consistent with the conclusion in Section 4.2.3 that “excessively
high flow velocity worsens temperature uniformity”. Therefore, the flow velocity should
be controlled around 3 m/s to balance cooling efficiency with temperature uniformity.
4.3. Comparative Performance Evaluation of Different Cooling Strategies
The optimized configuration was selected as the representative case of the proposed
hybrid cooling system. Its performance was compared with three reference strategies: no
cooling, passive cooling, and liquid cooling. To ensure objective and consistent comparison,
all strategies were evaluated under the same flight mission profile, battery discharge rate
curve, and initial temperature of 25 ◦C. The same thermal model parameters and boundary
conditions were also used in all simulations. Therefore, differences in thermal perfor-
mance were attributed only to the cooling strategy. This comparison verifies the relative
advantages of the proposed hybrid cooling system for practical engineering applications.
4.3.1. No Cooling Performance Analysis
A thermal field simulation model of the battery module without any cooling struc-
ture was established to reveal the extreme thermal response over the full eVTOL mission
profile. As shown in Figure 15a,b, the maximum temperature reaches 45.6 ◦C, and the
maximum temperature difference reaches 6.08 ◦C. These values exceed both the ideal
operating temperature range of lithium-ion batteries, 20 to 40◦C, and the 5 ◦C safety thresh-
old for inter-cell temperature difference. This result indicates severe heat accumulation
and non-uniform temperature distribution under no cooling conditions, which cannot
satisfy the thermal safety requirements of eVTOL battery systems. The spatial temperature
distributions in Figure 16a,b further show that high-temperature regions are concentrated
near the cell center. Clear temperature gradients appear in the surrounding regions. This
phenomenon reflects insufficient heat dissipation paths and delayed thermal diffusion
within the module.
Under the high thermal load of eVTOL operation, the absence of a cooling system
causes module overheating and strong thermal non-uniformity. Such conditions reduce cell
cycle life and increase thermal runaway risk. In the no-cooling case, the peak temperature
of 45.6 ◦C and temperature difference of 6.08 ◦C generate significant thermal stress. This
stress leads to short-term overheating risk and long-term aging acceleration. Thermal
inconsistency also aggravates cell-to-cell performance divergence.
Previous studies have shown that prolonged exposure to high temperature accelerates
capacity fading and internal resistance growth in lithium-ion batteries [ 44]. The main
mechanisms include continuous solid electrolyte interphase growth, structural degradation
of active materials, and electrolyte decomposition. Large temperature gradients also cause
non-uniform aging among cells, which intensifies pack-level performance imbalance and
shortens service life. Therefore, an efficient thermal management system is essential for
long-term battery health, operational stability, and thermal safety.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 21 of 37
Figure 15. Thermal performance of the battery module without cooling: (a) variation in maximum
temperature with time; (b) variation in temperature difference with time.
Figure 16. Temperature field distribution of the battery module without cooling: (a) overall tempera-
ture field; (b) local temperature field.
4.3.2. Passive Cooling Performance Analysis
The passive cooling system was derived from the proposed hybrid cooling system by
retaining the high-thermal-conductivity plates and PCM, while removing active air cooling.
The thermal conducting material was 6063 aluminum alloy, and the cell spacing was 1 mm.
This configuration represents the passive heat dissipation limit under natural convection.
As shown in Figure 17a,b, the passive cooling system improves the temperature
uniformity of the battery module. The maximum temperature difference is controlled
within 2.2 ◦C. Figure 18a,b further show the spatial temperature distribution. Heat is
effectively transferred from the high-temperature region of the cells to the PCM through
the thermal conduction structure, leading to a more uniform temperature field.
However, without an active heat rejection path, heat removal mainly depends on PCM
heat absorption. Under high-rate discharge, heat accumulation exceeds the phase change
buffering capacity of the PCM. As a result, the maximum temperature still reaches 43.1 ◦C,
which is difficult to satisfy the temperature control requirement of eVTOL battery modules.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 22 of 37
Figure 17. Thermal performance of the battery module with passive cooling: (a) variation in maxi-
mum temperature with time; (b) variation in temperature difference with time.
Figure 18. Temperature field distribution of the battery module with passive cooling: ( a) overall
temperature field; (b) local temperature field.
4.3.3. Liquid Cooling Performance Analysis
To ensure a consistent comparison, the baseline liquid cooling system was developed
from the core structure of the hybrid cooling system. The PCM layer and air-cooling
channels were removed. The 6063-aluminum alloy high-thermal-conductivity plate and
1 mm cell gap were retained. Symmetric liquid cooling plates were added to both sides
of the battery module. This configuration combines lateral heat spreading through the
high-thermal-conductivity plate with forced convection from liquid cooling.
The battery dimensions and performance parameters were kept consistent with those
used in this study. The selected liquid cooling system serves only as a baseline configuration.
Its channel geometry, coolant flow rate, pressure drop, mass, and volume were not fully
optimized. The baseline liquid cooling system is shown in Figure 19. The dimensions of the
cooling plates are 197 × 320 × 5 mm. Each aluminum cooling plate has 44 square cooling
channels, with the dimensions of each channel being 2 × 320 × 3 mm. The coolant used is a
50% ethylene glycol solution, with a density of 1071.11 kg/m3, specific heat of 3281 J/kg·K,
thermal conductivity of 0.384 W/m·K, and dynamic viscosity of 0.00339 Pas. The cooling
system operates at 25 ◦C, with the inlet velocity of the coolant set to 0.9 m/s [18].
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 23 of 37
Figure 19. Schematic of the baseline liquid cooling system.
The simulation results indicate that, as shown in Figure 20a,b, the temperature varia-
tions in the active liquid cooling system closely follow the flight conditions and discharge
rates, exhibiting a two-peak, two-plateau profile. Throughout the entire process, the max-
imum temperature is only 35.9 ◦C, and the temperature never exceeds the upper limit
of 40 ◦C within the optimal operating range. The maximum temperature difference is
2.9 ◦C, while the minimum temperature difference during the cruise phase is only 2.1 ◦C,
all remaining below the safety threshold of 5 ◦C. As shown in Figure 21a,b, the spatial
temperature distribution exhibits a mild gradient, with lower temperatures at both sides
and slightly higher temperatures in the middle. The highest temperature is located at the
center of the module, with no significant thermal accumulation, demonstrating excellent
temperature stability and uniformity. In comparison, the hybrid cooling system proposed
in this study achieves a peak temperature of 37.9◦C and a maximum temperature difference
of 3.1 ◦C, indicating that the two systems exhibit closely comparable thermal performance.
Figure 20. Thermal performance of the battery module with liquid cooling: (a) variation in maximum
temperature with time; (b) variation in temperature difference with time.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 24 of 37
Figure 21. Temperature field distribution of the battery module with liquid cooling: ( a) overall
temperature field; (b) local temperature field.
To improve the rationality of the comparison between the proposed hybrid cooling
system and the baseline liquid cooling system, a structural parameter sensitivity analysis
was further conducted for the baseline liquid cooling configuration. The coolant inlet
velocity was kept at 0.9 m/s. The liquid cooling channel height and liquid cooling plate
thickness were varied to evaluate their effects on temperature control performance and
system mass. A new liquid cooling comparison scheme was then determined. This
scheme was used for subsequent comparison of structural mass among different cooling
configurations under similar temperature control levels.
The system mass considered in this analysis includes the cooling plates, liquid cool-
ing channels, coolant, and local cooling structures inside the module. External pumps,
pipelines, connectors, and heat exchangers were not included.
When the liquid cooling plate thickness was fixed at 5 mm, increasing the channel
height from 2 mm to 4 mm reduced the maximum temperature from 36.3 ◦C to 35.6 ◦C, the
maximum temperature difference from 3.1 ◦C to 2.8 ◦C, and the liquid cooling structure
mass from 31.2 kg to 30.0 kg, as shown in Figure 22. A larger channel height increases the
coolant flow area and enhances channel heat transfer. Meanwhile, the solid metal volume
of the cooling plate decreases.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 22. Effect of liquid cooling channel height on the performance of the cooling system.
When the channel height was fixed at 3 mm, the liquid cooling plate thickness in-
creased from 4 mm to 6 mm reduced the maximum temperature from 36.4◦C to 35.6 ◦C and
the maximum temperature difference from 3.2◦C to 2.8 ◦C, as shown in Figure 23. However,
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 25 of 37
the liquid cooling structure mass increased from 27.4 kg to 33.9 kg. A thicker cooling plate
improves lateral heat conduction and temperature uniformity but also increases structural
mass. A thinner plate reduces mass but weakens heat spreading.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 23. Effect of liquid cooling plate thickness on the performance of the liquid cooling system.
These results show that the liquid cooling channel height mainly affects the coolant
flow area and channel heat transfer capacity. Increasing the channel height can reduce both
thermal indicators and cooling plate mass within the investigated range. In contrast, the
liquid cooling plate thickness mainly affects lateral heat conduction and structural mass.
Increasing plate thickness improves temperature control but increases system mass.
According to the sensitivity analysis, a new liquid cooling scheme was further con-
structed to compare the structural characteristics of the liquid cooling system and the
hybrid cooling system under similar thermal control levels. In this scheme, the liquid
cooling plate thickness was reduced from 5 mm to 3 mm, the channel height was reduced
from 3 mm to 2.0 mm, and the coolant inlet velocity was kept at 0.9 m/s. As shown in
Figure 24, the maximum temperature and maximum temperature difference are 38.1 ◦C
and 3.1 ◦C, respectively, which are close to those of the hybrid cooling system, 37.9 ◦C and
3.1 ◦C. The mass of the liquid cooling system is 24.8 kg.
Figure 24. Thermal performance of the liquid cooling system. (a) Variation in maximum temperature
with time; (b) variation in temperature difference with time.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 26 of 37
4.3.4. Comprehensive Performance Evaluation
Based on the comprehensive performance evaluation metric system established in
Section 3.5, this section conducts a systematic comparative analysis of the no cooling
system, hybrid cooling system, liquid cooling system, and passive cooling system under
the same flight conditions. To ensure comparability of the metrics and the objectivity
of the normalization process, the grouping efficiency and space occupancy of the no
cooling system, which are used to measure structural compactness, are set as the reference
benchmark, with a normalized value of 1. These values serve as the relative performance
reference for other cooling systems.
Based on the comprehensive performance evaluation results in Table 6. In terms of
thermal performance: compared with the no cooling approach, the hybrid cooling system
reduces the maximum temperature and maximum temperature difference by 16.8% and
49%, respectively. Relative to the passive cooling system, the temperature control margin
(TCM) is improved by 13.4%, and the fluctuation amplitude of temperature stability (ST) is
improved by 44.6%. However, its performance in controlling the maximum temperature
difference (DT) is 33.3% lower than that of the passive cooling system. The overall temper-
ature control capability of the hybrid cooling system is comparable to that of the liquid
cooling system.
Table 6. Comprehensive performance assessment results.
Performance
Indicators No Cooling Hybrid
Cooling
Liquid
Cooling
Passive
Cooling
TCM (K) 14.81 21.53 21.7 18.98
ST (K) 2.84 1.33 1.35 2.40
DT (K) 2.98 1.60 1.56 1.20
GE 1 0.93 0.76 0.94
SO 1 0.33 0.41 0.30
In terms of structural performance: The spatial occupancy (SO) of the hybrid cooling
system is 19.5% lower than that of the liquid cooling system, while showing a marginal
increase compared to the passive cooling system. The grouping efficiency (GE) is 22.4%
higher than that of the liquid cooling system and remains essentially comparable to that of
the passive cooling system.
To further compare the comprehensive performance of different cooling strategies, a
visual comparative analysis of key performance indicators across all cooling strategies was
conducted, with results presented in the radar chart in Figure 25:
In Figure 25a, the no cooling system exhibits certain advantages in structural compact-
ness and spatial utilization; however, its temperature control capability and stability are
extremely poor, accompanied by severe heat accumulation issues that compromise battery
thermal safety.
Figure 25b shows that the hybrid cooling system achieves balanced performance across
the five-evaluation metrics. The system shows relatively good performance in controlling
the maximum temperature and temperature difference. Good temperature stability and
structural adaptability are also maintained.
Figure 25c displays the performance of the passive cooling system: this system per-
forms well in temperature stability and structural compactness; however, due to the absence
of an active cooling mechanism, its peak temperature control capability is limited, resulting
in overall performance that does not reach the level of the hybrid cooling system.
Figure 25d presents the performance characteristics of the liquid cooling system: its
temperature control effectiveness slightly surpasses that of the hybrid cooling system, but
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 27 of 37
constrained by its complex structural design, it shows relatively low module efficiency and
spatial utilization.
Figure 25. Comparison diagram of integrated radar: ( a) no cooling radar plot; (b) hybrid cooling
radar plot; (c) passive cooling radar plot; (d) liquid cooling radar plot.
This system effectively mitigates the thermal safety risks associated with the no cooling
approach, the structural redundancy of liquid cooling, and the peak temperature control
limitations of passive cooling. Specifically, the hybrid configuration achieves an integrated
balance between efficient thermal management and structural compactness, numerically
predicting maximum temperature and maximum temperature difference of 37.9 ◦C and
3.1 ◦C, respectively, while establishing a uniform and moderate thermal environment.
Existing studies confirm [45] that sustaining lithium-ion battery operation within the ideal
20–40 ◦C range while minimizing internal temperature gradients is critical for decelerating
aging rates and preserving cell-to-cell performance consistency. Consequently, the hybrid
cooling system not only ensures thermal safety during individual eVTOL flights but
also fundamentally supports long-term healthy operation of the power battery, thereby
enhancing lifecycle economic viability and operational reliability.
Additionally, a performance comparison is conducted with other systems reported in
the literature. Table 7 summarizes recent comparable studies, indicating that the present
design effectively meets the performance requirements for electric aircraft and offers a
robust solution for maintaining component reliability under variable operating conditions.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 28 of 37
Table 7. Comparison of similar studies.
Study Application
Scenario
Cooling
Method
Maximum
Temperature
Maximum
Temperature
Difference
Energy
Saving Ratio Key Feature
The proposed
work
eVTOL
pouch-cell
battery
module
HCP-PCM air
cooling 37.9◦C 3.1 ◦C
43.3%
reduction
compared
with
continuous air
cooling
Balances
thermal control,
compactness,
and air cooling
energy use.
Z. Wang
et al. [18]
Flying-
car/eVTOL
battery
system
Optimized
liquid-cooled
plate
31.1◦C 4.8 ◦C -
Strong heat
dissipation,
higher
structural
complexity.
Wu et al. [19]
Typical
eVTOL
battery
system
Flat heat
pipe–ram air
passive
cooling
<38.46◦C 3.85 ◦C -
Uses ram air,
suitable for
lightweight
passive cooling.
Zhao
et al. [20]
Tilt-wing and
lift-cruise
eVTOL
Channel-
based liquid
cooling
Within safe
range -
Cooling
system mass
<20% of
battery mass
Reduces battery
degradation
compared with
air cooling.
Chai et al. [22] eVTOL
battery pack
PCM–
immersion
cooling
<48◦C 4.74 ◦C
PCM mass
5.32% of
battery pack
mass
Combines PCM
buffering and
immersion
cooling.
Lee et al. [26]
Fast-charging
battery
module
Liquid-cooled
baseplate–
fins–PCM
38.4◦C 3.9 ◦C -
Compact
hybrid cooling
system under
fast charging.
4.4. Adaptability Analysis of the Hybrid Cooling System
Based on the multi-condition settings and SOC calculation method defined in
Section 2.2, this section analyzes the effects of ambient temperature, cruise duration, and
hover duration on the thermal performance of the proposed hybrid cooling system.
4.4.1. Effect of Ambient Temperature
Ambient temperature is an important boundary condition affecting the performance
of the hybrid cooling system. It influences the heat transfer temperature difference between
the battery module and the external air. It also affects the initial phase state of the PCM,
the utilization of latent heat, and the ability of the air-cooling channel to remove heat from
the outer surface of the PCM. To further evaluate the adaptability of the proposed hybrid
cooling system under different climatic conditions, five ambient temperature cases were
considered in this study: 15 ◦C, 20 ◦C, 25 ◦C, 30 ◦C, and 35 ◦C. The baseline flight profile,
structural parameters, and inlet airflow velocity were kept unchanged.
As shown in Figure 26, ambient temperature strongly affects the thermal performance
of the hybrid cooling system. At 15 ◦C and 20 ◦C, the initial temperature is below the
phase-change range of MPCM32D. The large temperature difference between the inlet air
and the PCM surface enhances heat removal by the air-cooling channel. Therefore, the
maximum battery temperature is lower than that under the 25 ◦C baseline condition.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 29 of 37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 26. Performance results under different ambient temperatures.
At 15 ◦C, heat regulation mainly depends on lateral heat spreading through the high-
thermal-conductivity plate and sensible heat absorption by solid PCM. Only limited phase
change occurs in the later stage. The maximum temperature is 30.6 ◦C, and the final
PCM liquid fraction is 0.18. At 20 ◦C, the PCM enters the phase-change range during
takeoff hover and the middle-to-late cruise stage. The liquid fraction increases to 0.43, and
the maximum temperature reaches 34.2 ◦C. The maximum temperature differences are
3.4 ◦C and 3.2 ◦C at 15 ◦C and 20 ◦C, respectively. Under the 25 ◦C baseline condition,
the maximum temperature and maximum temperature difference are 37.9 ◦C and 3.1 ◦C,
respectively. The final PCM liquid fraction is 0.76. This indicates good thermal matching
between the PCM and the cooling system. At 30 ◦C, the initial temperature is close to the
phase-change range of MPCM32D. PCM is activated earlier, and its latent heat reserve is
consumed more rapidly. The maximum temperature increases to 40.6 ◦C, with a maximum
temperature difference of 3.3 ◦C and a final liquid fraction of 0.93. At 35 ◦C, the initial
temperature exceeds the phase-change temperature of MPCM32D. The PCM is already
liquid at the beginning of the mission. Its latent heat buffering effect is therefore weakened,
and heat regulation mainly relies on sensible heat absorption and surface heat removal.
As a result, the maximum temperature rises to 47.0 ◦C, and the maximum temperature
difference increases to 3.7 ◦C.
Overall, the proposed hybrid cooling system shows good adaptability at 30 ◦C. At this
temperature, the PCM latent heat can be effectively activated, although it is nearly depleted
near the end of the mission.
4.4.2. Effect of Cruise Duration
Although the discharge rate during cruise is lower than that during takeoff and
landing hover, the cruise phase has the longest duration. Therefore, it strongly affects the
PCM latent heat consumption and SOC variation during the mission. In this study, the
takeoff hover, climb, descent, and landing hover phases were kept unchanged. Only the
cruise duration was varied. Three cases were considered: 800 s, 1200 s, and 1600 s. The
1200 s case was used as the baseline. According to the SOC calculation, the final SOC values
for the three cruise durations were 57.4%, 45.1%, and 32.6%, respectively.
As shown in Figure 27, the maximum temperature, maximum temperature difference,
and PCM liquid fraction all increase as the cruise duration increases from 800 s to 1600 s.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 30 of 37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 27. Performance results under different cruise durations.
When the cruise duration is 800 s, the total mission time is short, and the final SOC re-
mains high. The total heat generation of the battery module is relatively low. Thus, the PCM
latent heat is only partially consumed. The final PCM liquid fraction is 0.66. The maximum
temperature and maximum temperature difference are 36.7 ◦C and 2.8 ◦C, respectively.
This indicates that the hybrid cooling system has sufficient thermal buffering capacity.
When the cruise duration increases to 1200 s, the system operates under the baseline
condition. Continuous heat generation during cruise increases the PCM liquid fraction.
In the middle and later stages of flight, the heat storage capacity of PCM begins to de-
cline. The final PCM liquid fraction is about 0.76. However, air cooling continuously
removes heat from the PCM and partially restores its heat storage capacity. Therefore, the
maximum temperature and maximum temperature difference are limited to 37.9 ◦C and
3.1 ◦C, respectively.
When the cruise duration further increases to 1600 s, the total mission time reaches
1900 s. The final SOC decreases to 32.6%. The total heat generation increases, and the
PCM remains at a high liquid fraction. As a result, the maximum temperature rises to
39.5 ◦C, and the maximum temperature difference increases to 3.5 ◦C. The final PCM liquid
fraction reaches 0.88. Although the maximum temperature remains below 40 ◦C and the
temperature difference remains below 5◦C, the remaining latent heat capacity of the PCM is
significantly reduced. This suggests that long-range missions weaken the thermal buffering
capacity of the system during the final high-discharge phase.
Overall, the hybrid cooling system can still maintain good temperature control as the
cruise duration increases. However, the increasing PCM liquid fraction indicates a gradual
reduction in latent heat buffering margin.
4.4.3. Effect of Hover Duration
The takeoff and landing hover phases have the highest power demand in an eVTOL
mission. Although these phases are short, their instantaneous heat generation rate is much
higher than that during cruise. To evaluate the effect of high-discharge duration on the
hybrid cooling system, the takeoff and landing hover durations were simultaneously set to
30 s, 40 s, and 50 s. All other flight conditions were kept unchanged.
As shown in Figure 28, increasing the single hover duration from 30 s to 50 s increases
the thermal load of the battery module. The maximum temperature rises from 37.9 ◦C to
39.8 ◦C. The maximum temperature difference increases from 3.1 ◦C to 3.7 ◦C. The PCM
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 31 of 37
liquid fraction also increases from 0.76 to 0.87. This indicates that a longer high-discharge
period directly increases transient heat input and accelerates PCM latent heat consumption.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 28. Performance results under different hover durations.
The thermal response differs between takeoff hover and landing hover. Takeoff hover
occurs at the beginning of the mission. At this stage, the battery, PCM, and high-thermal-
conductivity plate are still at relatively low temperatures. The PCM also has sufficient
latent heat capacity. Therefore, the thermal shock during takeoff can be effectively buffered
by heat spreading through the high-thermal-conductivity plate and heat absorption by the
PCM. In contrast, landing hover occurs near the end of the mission. After climbing and
long cruises, the battery SOC decreases and the PCM liquid fraction increases. Thus, under
the same discharge rate and duration, landing hover is more likely to cause the maximum
temperature of the entire mission.
When the single hover duration increases to 40 s, the PCM still retains part of its latent
heat capacity. Air cooling can also help recover its heat storage ability. The maximum
temperature increases to 38.9 ◦C. When the hover duration further increases to 50 s, the
final PCM liquid fraction reaches 0.87. This means that most of the latent heat reserve
has been consumed. The maximum temperature reaches 39.8 ◦C, while the maximum
temperature difference remains within 3.7 ◦C.
These results show that the proposed hybrid cooling system has a certain adaptability
to short-term extension of hover duration.
4.5. Air-Cooling Intervention Strategy and Energy Efficiency Trade-Off Analysis
In the hybrid cooling system for eVTOL power batteries, air cooling effectively sup-
presses battery temperature rise by enhancing convective heat transfer and is therefore
essential for thermal safety under high-rate discharge conditions. However, continuous
operation of the air-cooling subsystem throughout the entire flight mission leads to addi-
tional energy consumption, which may undermine the requirements of eVTOL systems for
high energy efficiency and extended endurance.
As shown in Figure 29, compared with the pure PCM cooling system, the hybrid
cooling system more effectively suppresses the continuous temperature rise of the battery
module during the later stage of flight. In particular. After t = 500 s, the temperature
difference (∆T) between the two systems increases rapidly from 0.8 ◦C to 5.2 ◦C, indicating
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 32 of 37
that air cooling gradually becomes the dominant temperature regulation mechanism. When
sufficient latent heat remains in the PCM, the peak temperature rise is relatively insensitive
to the inlet airflow velocity, suggesting that the system mainly relies on PCM-based latent
heat storage for passive thermal regulation in the early stage of flight. As the PCM latent
heat is progressively depleted, its independent thermal buffering capability weakens, and
the air-cooling subsystem increasingly assumes the primary heat dissipation role through
forced convection and accelerated heat release from the PCM. Overall, the hybrid cooling
system exhibits a clear stage-dependent functional division: PCM dominates early-stage
thermal buffering, whereas air cooling governs sustained heat dissipation in the middle
and later stages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 29. Time evolution curves of maximum temperature and temperature difference for the
passive cooling system and hybrid cooling system. The asterisk indicates the characteristic time point
at t = 500 s.
Furthermore, the PCM liquid fraction was adopted as a quantitative measure of latent
heat consumption, providing a physically interpretable basis for determining the air-cooling
intervention timing. This parameter directly reflects the phase-change progression of the
PCM and is negatively correlated with the remaining latent heat capacity. It therefore serves
as a key physical metric for characterizing the degradation of thermal storage capability.
As indicated by the evolution curve of the PCM liquid fraction in Figure 30, when
t = 800 s, more than 50% of the PCM latent heat has been consumed, corresponding to
a liquid fraction of 0.5. This moment can therefore be regarded as a critical transition
point at which the PCM shifts from a latent-heat-sufficient stage to a thermal storage
degradation stage. Beyond this point, the heat removal capacity at the convective boundary
gradually becomes the dominant factor in suppressing temperature rise, whereas the
ability of PCM phase change to mitigate the peak temperature and temperature difference
begins to weaken. The multiparameter coupled evolution shown in Figure 30 further
clarifies the physical states corresponding to different intervention times. At t = 500 s,
the maximum battery module temperature Tmax is 31.5 ◦C and the PCM liquid fraction is
0.28, indicating that the PCM is still in a latent-heat-sufficient stage dominated by passive
thermal regulation. At t = 650 s, Tmax rises to 32.2 ◦C and the liquid fraction increases
to 0.36, suggesting that latent heat consumption is gradually increasing but has not yet
entered the degradation stage. At t = 800 s, Tmax reaches 32.9 ◦C and the liquid fraction
exceeds 0.5, indicating that more than 50% of the latent heat has been consumed and that
the PCM has formally entered the thermal storage degradation stage. At t = 950 s, Tmax
further increases to 34.1 ◦C and the liquid fraction approaches 0.62, implying that the latent
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 33 of 37
heat reserve is close to depletion and the thermal storage regulation capability has been
significantly weakened.
Figure 30. Temperature and liquid fraction at the cooling activation time.
Based on the thermal evolution pattern and intrinsic functional mechanisms, an air-
cooling intervention strategy is proposed and verified through simulations. Specifically,
when the PCM system temperature reaches 31.5 ◦C at t = 500 s, it is determined as the
critical response threshold to activate the air cooling. To evaluate the impact of different
intervention timings on thermal behavior and air-cooling energy consumption, four repre-
sentative intervention time points are selected around this response threshold: t = 500 s,
650 s, 800 s, and 950 s, with a 150 s interval between each to balance the strategy coverage
and experimental resolution.
The energy consumption corresponding to each time sequenced air-cooling strategy is
quantitatively assessed using the following method:
E = mair · ∆pair
ρair · η f an
· ∆t (33)
In Equation (33), ∆pair denotes the static pressure difference of the modeled air-cooling
channel obtained from CFD postprocessing. At the baseline inlet velocity of 3 m/s, the inlet
area is 1.63 × 10−3 m2, giving an air volume flow rate of 4.89 × 10−3 m3/s. The air density
and fan efficiency are set to 1.184 kg/m3 and 0.60, respectively. The pressure difference is
defined as the area-averaged static pressure difference between the inlet and outlet sections
of the modeled air-cooling channel. This power model represents the ideal air transport
power required to overcome the channel pressure drop.
Based on the analysis in Section 4.2.3, the inlet airflow velocity is set to 3 m/s. As
shown in Figure 31a,b, the temperature evolution of the battery module under different
intervention strategies is presented with a focus on the period from t = 300 s to the end of
the mission, to highlight the regulatory effect of air cooling on the thermal behavior during
the mid-to-late stages. Simulation results indicate that delaying the air-cooling intervention
leads to a gradual decline in the temperature control capability of the system. In addition,
a joint visualization of cooling duration, maximum temperature, and energy consumption
reveals the trade-off between thermal performance and energy cost for each strategy. While
the t = 0 s (continuous air cooling) strategy achieves the lowest peak temperature of 37.9◦C,
it incurs the highest energy consumption at 34.13 J. Conversely, the t = 950 s strategy yields
the lowest energy use (12.51 J) but allows the maximum temperature to rise to 40.7 ◦C,
indicating insufficient thermal regulation. Comprehensive analysis shows that the t = 650 s
intervention strategy achieves the optimal balance between thermal control and energy
efficiency. Within a total air-cooling duration of 850 s, it limits the maximum temperature
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 34 of 37
to 38.9 ◦C while consuming only 19.34 J of energy, outperforming both earlier and later
intervention schemes in terms of synergistic regulation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 31. Simulation results: ( a) temperature evolution of the battery module under different
air-cooling intervention times; (b) correlation between maximum system temperature and energy
consumption under different air-cooling durations.
Compared to continuous air cooling, the intervention strategy at t = 650s reduces
energy consumption by approximately 43.3%, while the peak temperature increases by
only about 2.6%. In conclusion, the air-cooling intervention strategy, based on the peak
temperature response window of the battery module, effectively activates cooling potential
in the later stages of the flight mission. This significantly reduces energy consumption while
ensuring thermal safety, providing a feasible path and parameter reference for intelligent
thermal management under multi-stage operating conditions in eVTOLs.
5. Conclusions
To address the challenges of heat dissipation and structural compactness in eVTOL
power batteries under high-rate discharge conditions, this study proposes a hybrid battery
cooling system integrating forced air convection, high-thermal-conductivity plates, and
PCM. The power demand in different eVTOL flight phases is first analyzed. A single-
cell simulation model is then developed and validated through experiments. Three key
structural parameters are investigated, including cell spacing, high-thermal-conductivity
plate material, and inlet airflow velocity. Sensitivity analysis is used to rank their effects
on thermal performance and structural compactness. A multidimensional evaluation
framework is established to compare the proposed system with no cooling, passive cooling,
and liquid cooling strategies. The adaptability of the hybrid cooling system under different
operating conditions is further analyzed. In addition, an air-cooling intervention strategy
is proposed to reduce the high energy consumption caused by continuous airflow:
(1) A hybrid battery cooling system combining air cooling, high-thermal-conductivity
plates, and PCM is developed. Under the optimized configuration, with a cell spacing of
1 mm, a 6063-aluminum alloy high-thermal-conductivity plate, and an inlet airflow velocity
of 3 m/s, the maximum battery temperature and maximum temperature difference are
limited to 37.9 ◦C and 3.1 ◦C, respectively. Sensitivity analysis shows that cell spacing
has the greatest effect on system mass and peak temperature, while inlet airflow velocity
mainly affects temperature uniformity.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 35 of 37
(2) A multidimensional evaluation framework is established, including temperature
control margin and space occupancy ratio. Compared with passive cooling, the hybrid
cooling system improves the temperature control margin and thermal stability by 13.4%
and 44.6%, respectively. Compared with the liquid cooling system, the space occupancy
ratio is reduced by 19.5%, and the grouping efficiency is increased by 22.4%. The adapt-
ability analysis shows that the optimized hybrid cooling system is suitable for ambient
temperatures below 30 ◦C.
(3) An air-cooling intervention strategy based on the PCM liquid fraction is proposed.
The results show that air cooling should be activated at t = 650 s, when the maximum
temperature reaches 32.2 ◦C and the liquid fraction reaches 0.36. Under this strategy,
the maximum battery module temperature is limited to 38.9 ◦C, while good temperature
uniformity is maintained. Compared with continuous air cooling, the air-cooling energy
consumption during a single flight mission is reduced by 43.3%.
Although this study systematically investigates the structural design, parameter op-
timization, performance evaluation, and air-cooling intervention strategy of the hybrid
cooling system, some limitations remain. The present analysis is limited to a single mission
simulation. Future work will further consider repeated mission cycles, low temperature
starts up, high-temperature operation, and experimental validation under wide tempera-
ture conditions.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, X.W.; methodology, S.Y.; software, Y.C.; validation, X.W.
and M.L.; formal analysis, J.S.; investigation, Y.C.; data curation, S.Y.; writing—original draft prepara-
tion, S.Y.; writing—review and editing, J.S., Y.W. and J.D.; visualization, Y.W. and M.L.; supervision,
J.D.; project administration, X.W.; funding acquisition, X.W. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the Natural Science Foundation of Hebei Province, grant
number E2024202014.
Data Availability Statement: The raw data supporting the conclusions of this article will be made
available by the authors upon request.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:
eVTOL Electric vertical takeoff and landing
PCM Phase-change material
HCP High-thermal-conductivity plates
GTOM Total takeoff weight
ROC Climb rate
L Lift
D Drag
ROD Descent rate
TCM Temperature control margin
ST Temperature stability
DT Time-averaged maximum temperature difference
GE Grouping efficiency
SO Space occupancy ratio
ED Energy density
VO Volume occupies
BTMS Battery thermal management system
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 36 of 37
References
1. Yang, X.G.; Liu, T.; Ge, S.; Rountree, E.; Wang, C.-Y. Challenges and key requirements of batteries for electric vertical takeoff and
landing aircraft. Joule 2021, 5, 1644–1659. [CrossRef]
2. Cohen, A.P .; Shaheen, S.A.; Farrar , E.M. Urban air mobility: History, ecosystem, market potential, and challenges.IEEE Trans.
Intell. Transp. Syst. 2021, 22, 6074–6087. [CrossRef]
3. Fredericks, W.L.; Sripad, S.; Bower, G.C.; Viswanathan, V . Performance Metrics Required of Next-Generation Batteries to Electrify
Vertical Takeoff and Landing (VTOL) Aircraft.ACS Energy Lett. 2018, 3, 2989–2994. [CrossRef]
4. Jinghui, D. Technical status and development of electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft. Acta Aeronaut. Astronaut. Sin. 2024,
45, 529937.
5. Huang, Y.; Mei, P .; Lu, Y.; Huang, R.; Yu, X.; Chen, Z.; Roskilly, A.P . A novel approach for Lithium-ion battery thermal management
with streamline shape mini channel cooling plates. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2019, 157, 113623. [CrossRef]
6. Yan, J.; Wang, Q.; Li, K.; Sun, J. Numerical study on the thermal performance of a composite board in battery thermal management
system. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2016, 106, 131–140. [CrossRef]
7. Kasliwal, A.; Furbush, N.J.; Gawron, J.H.; McBride, J.R.; Wallington, T.J.; De Kleine, R.D.; Kim, H.C.; Keoleian, G.A. Role of Flying
Cars in Sustainable Mobility. Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 1555. [CrossRef]
8. Yang, C.; Xi, H.; Wang, M. Structure optimization of air cooling battery thermal management system based on lithium-ion battery.
J. Energy Storage 2023, 59, 106538. [CrossRef]
9. Fan, Y.; Bao, Y.; Ling, C.; Chu, Y.; Tan, X.; Yang, S. Experimental study on the thermal management performance of air cooling for
high energy density cylindrical lithium-ion batteries. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2019, 155, 96–109. [CrossRef]
10. Li, X.; Zhao, J.; Duan, J.; Panchal, S.; Yuan, J.; Fraser, R.; Fowler, M.; Chen, M. Simulation of cooling plate effect on a battery
module with different channel arrangement. J. Energy Storage 2022, 49, 104113. [CrossRef]
11. Qian, Z.; Li, Y.; Rao, Z. Thermal performance of lithium-ion battery thermal management system by using mini-channel cooling.
Energy Convers. Manag. 2016, 126, 622–631. [CrossRef]
12. Heyhat, M.M.; Mousavi, S.; Siavashi, M. Battery thermal management with thermal energy storage composites of PCM, metal
foam, fin and nanoparticle. J. Energy Storage 2020, 28, 101235. [CrossRef]
13. Cai, S.; Zhang, X.; Ji, J. Recent advances in phase change material-based battery thermal management systems for electric vehicles.
J. Energy Storage 2023, 72, 108750. [CrossRef]
14. Liang, J.; Gan, Y.; Li, Y. Investigation on the thermal performance of a battery thermal management system using heat pipe under
different ambient temperatures. Energy Convers. Manag. 2018, 155, 1–9. [CrossRef]
15. Luo, Y.; Qian, Y.; Zeng, Z.; Zhang, Y. Simulation and analysis of operating characteristics of power battery for flying car utilization.
eTransportation 2021, 8, 100111. [CrossRef]
16. Park, J.; Jeong, T.; Yee, K. Refined air-cooled battery sizing process for conceptual design of eVTOL aircraft.Appl. Energy 2025,
377, 124567. [CrossRef]
17. Park, J.; Yee, K. Development of Liquid-Cooled Battery System Sizing Method for eVTOL Aircraft. In Proceedings of the AIAA
SciTech 2025 Forum, Orlando, FL, USA, 6–10 January 2025; p. 0222.
18. Wang, Z.; Guan, Q.; Zhang, H.; Wu, X.; Yu, D. Optimized design of liquid-cooled plate structure for flying car power battery
system. J. Energy Storage 2024, 97, 112720. [CrossRef]
19. Wu, Z.; Lian, W.; Chen, B.; Zheng, C. Research on battery heat generation characteristics and thermal management system applied
to a typical eVTOL. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2024, 257, 124187. [CrossRef]
20. Zhao, C.; Clarke, M.; Kellermann, H.; Verstraete, D. Liquid cooling systems for batteries of electric vertical takeoff and landing
aircraft. J. Aircr. 2024, 61, 667–683. [CrossRef]
21. Zhao, C.; Mazo, J.R.; Verstraete, D. Optimizations of a liquid cooling system for eVTOL aircraft: Impact of sizing mission and
battery size. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2024, 246, 122988. [CrossRef]
22. Chai, X.; Xu, X.; Liang, X. Strategy of battery thermal management for eVTOL by combination of PCM and immersion cooling.
Therm. Sci. Eng. Prog. 2025, 64, 103824. [CrossRef]
23. Zhao, C.; Gunti, S.R.; Kellermann, H.; Gong, A.; Coburn, S.; Moore, A.; Verstraete, D. Thermoelectric cooling systems for eVTOL
batteries operating on hot days. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2025, 269, 125999. [CrossRef]
24. Wang, S.; Wang, H.; Feng, Y.; Li, H.; Li, J. Propeller slipstream driven air–liquid hybrid cooling system for electric aircraft power
cabin thermal management. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2025, 280, 128457. [CrossRef]
25. Sun, Z.; Fan, R.; Yan, F.; Zhou, T.; Zheng, N. Thermal management of the lithium-ion battery by the composite PCM-Fin structures.
Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 2019, 145, 118739. [CrossRef]
26. Lee, S.; Han, U.; Lee, H. Development of a hybrid battery thermal management system coupled with phase change material
under fast charging conditions. Energy Convers. Manag. 2022, 268, 116015. [CrossRef]
27. Ling, Z.; Wang, F.; Fang, X.; Gao, X.; Zhang, Z. A hybrid thermal management system for lithium ion batteries combining phase
change material with forced-air cooling. Appl. Energy 2015, 148, 403–409. [CrossRef]
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
Batteries 2026, 12, 170 37 of 37
28. Ma, Y.; Chiang, S.W.; Chu, X.; Li, J.; Gan, L.; Xu, C.; Yao, Y.; He, Y.; Li, B.; Kang, F.; et al. Thermal design and optimization of
lithium ion batteries for unmanned aerial vehicles. Energy Storage 2019, 1, e48. [CrossRef]
29. Rao, Z.; Qian, Z.; Kuang, Y.; Li, Y. Thermal performance of liquid cooling based thermal management system for cylindrical
lithium-ion battery module with variable contact surface. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2017, 123, 1514–1522. [CrossRef]
30. Liu, T.; Yang, X.G.; Ge, S.; Leng, Y.; Wang, C.-Y. Ultrafast charging of energy-dense lithium-ion batteries for urban air mobility.
eTransportation 2021, 7, 100103. [CrossRef]
31. Moller, P .S.Review of Selected Advanced Air Mobility Aircraft; Moller International and Freedom Motors, Inc.: Dixon, CA, USA, 2022.
32. Zhao, J.; Rao, Z.; Huo, Y.; Liu, X.; Li, Y. Thermal management of cylindrical power battery module for extending the life of new
energy electric vehicles. Appl. Therm. Eng. 2015, 85, 33–43. [CrossRef]
33. Shah, K.; Jain, A. Prediction of thermal runaway and thermal management requirements in cylindrical Li-ion batteries in realistic
scenarios. Int. J. Energy Res. 2019, 43, 1827–1838. [CrossRef]
34. Skurkyte-Papieviene, V .; Abraitiene, A.; Sankauskaite, A.; Rubeziene, V .; Baltusnikaite-Guzaitiene, J. Enhancement of the thermal
performance of the paraffin-based microcapsules intended for textile applications. Polymers 2021, 13, 1120. [CrossRef]
35. Peng, Y.; Zhang, Q.; Wen, L.; Xie, Z.; Huang, B.; Hu, S.; Tang, H.; Wei, C. An investigation into microstructures and mechanical
properties of 1060 pure aluminum during submerged friction stir processing at a high rotating speed. Metals 2022, 12, 201.
[CrossRef]
36. Cheng, Z.; Koh, Y.R.; Mamun, A.; Shi, J.; Bai, T.; Huynh, K.; Yates, L.; Liu, Z.; Li, R.; Lee, E.; et al. Experimental observation of
high intrinsic thermal conductivity of AlN. Phys. Rev. Mater. 2020, 4, 044602. [CrossRef]
37. Peng, G.; Dou, G.; Hu, Y.; Sun, Y.; Chen, Z. Phase change material (PCM) microcapsules for thermal energy storage.Adv. Polym.
Technol. 2020, 2020, 9490873. [CrossRef]
38. Bernardi, D.; Pawlikowski, E.; Newman, J. A general energy balance for battery systems. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1985, 132, 5.
[CrossRef]
39. Lempert, J.; Kollmeyer, P .J.; He, M.; Haußmann, M.; Cotton, J.S.; Emadi, A. Battery selection and thermal management system
design for a 5C-rate ultrafast charging battery module. J. Power Sources 2022, 550, 232121. [CrossRef]
40. Chen, S.C.; Wan, C.C.; Wang, Y.Y. Thermal analysis of lithium-ion batteries. J. Power Sources 2005, 140, 111–124. [CrossRef]
41. Türkakar, G. Thermal analysis and parametric investigation of phase change material-air cooled lithium ion battery pack. J. Heat
Transf. 2021, 143, 122901. [CrossRef]
42. Yin, H.N.; Xuan, Y.M.; Lian, W.L.; Wang, T. A comprehensive set of criteria for evaluating thermal management systems of aerial
vehicles. Sci. China Technol. Sci. 2023, 66, 2093–2107. [CrossRef]
43. Beven, K. A sensitivity analysis of the Penman-Monteith actual evapotranspiration estimates. J. Hydrol. 1979, 44, 169–190.
[CrossRef]
44. Park, S.J.; Song, Y.W.; Kang, B.; Kang, M.-J.; Kim, M.-Y.; Choi, Y.-J.; Lim, J.; Kim, H.-S.; Hong, Y. Effect of High-temperature thermal
management on degradation of li-ion battery for fast charging. IEEE Trans. Transp. Electrif. 2023, 10, 2912–2922. [CrossRef]
45. Zhang, X.; Li, Z.; Luo, L.; Fan, Y.; Du, Z. A review on thermal management of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. Energy
2022, 238, 121652. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
https://doi.org/10.3390/batteries12050170
